Difference between process, program and thread? Different types

A program consists of instructions in any programming language.
A process consists of instructions in machine code. A program in execution is called a process.
Thread is the basic unit of execution or CPU utilization. 
Scope
This article discusses programs, processes, and threads. It also explains different types of processes.

Definition
A program is a passive entity, which is a file containing a list of instructions stored on a disk (often called an executable file). A process on the other hand is an active entity with a program counter specifying the next instruction to be executed and a set of associated resources. A program becomes a process when an executable file is loaded into memory.

A thread is a basic unit of CPU utilization. It comprises a shared ID, a program counter, a register set, and a stack. It shares code section, data section, and other operating system resources such as open files and signals.

Difference between process and thread
THREAD	                                                                       PROCESS
Threads are easier to create and terminate 	                                   Processes are not easy to create and terminate.
Multiple threads when they are in the same process share the same address 	   Processes do not share the same address 
It is easy to communicate between the threads 	                               To communicate between processes we need operating system intervention. 
It takes less time in context switching.	                                     It takes more time to context switch.
Thread is lightweight. Each thread in the process shares code, data,           The process is called a heavyweight process.
and resources.	

Types of processes: 
There are basically two types of event-specific processes
I/O bound process: If a program/process spends more of its time doing I/O than it spends doing computations then it is called I/O bound process.
CPU bound process: If a program/process spends more of its time doing CPU operations (computations) and generates I/O requests infrequently then it is called CPU bound process.

Summary
The program consists of a list of instructions that gets stored on a hard disk.
When the program goes to RAM and starts running it becomes a process.
A thread is the smallest unit of execution managed by an operating system.
There are two types of processes: I/O bound process and CPU bound process.
